Answers about the database:

 

1.       Correct.

a.       Ditsong = Ditsong National Museum of Natural History (formerly called the Transvaal Museum), Pretoria, South Africa

b.       Durban = Durban Natural Science Museum, Durban, South Africa

c.       Naturalis = Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Leiden, Netherlands (sometimes abbreviated RMNH)

d.       NHMUK = Natural History Museum, Tring, UK (formerly abbreviated BMNH or BM(NH))

e.       NMSE = National Museums of Scotland, Edinburgh, UK (formerly Royal Scottish Museum)

f.        Peter Ryan = data from Peter Ryan, Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa

g.       RSPB = data from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (i.e., me)

h.       UCT-RSPB = data jointly owned by Peter Ryan (UCT) and me (RSPB)

i.         WFVZ = Western Foundation for Vertebrate Zoology, Camarillo, California, USA

j.         Williams 1980 = data from Williams AJ (1980) Rockhopper Penguins Eudyptes chrysocome at Gough Island. Bull Br Ornithol Club 100:208-212. This is simulated from a normal distribution given his means, SD, and sample size in the paper (attached)

k.       ZMUO = Zoological Museum, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway

2.       Probably not the best column name, I admit. Should probably be better called ?Notes?. In known clutches, we know for sure which was the A and which was the B egg; for harvested clutches, we don?t know so need to estimate it based on the discriminant function. Missing cells simply mean I had no notes for those data.

3.       The person who did the measurements is either listed in the Notes (?Reference?) column, or they were taken by a number of field workers. I measured the eggs at NHMUK and NMSE, and the same person measured the eggs on Tristan, Alex, and Nightingale in 2014 (Greg McClelland). Peter Ryan measured the eggs with which he is associated. The UCT-RSPB eggs were measured by a variety of field workers and I do not have those data.

4.       Those were derived from Altunas & Sekeroglu 2008 (attached).

5.       No, but the Publication Data tab was just my attempt to clean the data from the main data tab so it was something easily summarized. Feel free to discard it & start over. Note that there are often a number of ?runt? or ?oddball? eggs that should be excluded from the analysis

6.       Just that the specimen ID wasn?t given in the reference (see Roberts & Kirby 1948, attached). I assigned arbitrary sequential sample IDs to non-museum data, so one could do so for Durban as well.

7.       That would be great, and I imagine the data would need to be up anyway for when we submit a paper. Probably best to post a cleaned version (or whatever we decide to use in the analysis)

8.       This was something that I started working on in 2014, as a companion piece to a similar project on egg size. We also had the opportunity to get a large number of eggs measured on Tristan, Alex, and Nightingale, and Gough that year, so it seemed like a good opportunity. The rest of the data I either tracked down from published sources, or visited museum collections (or asked the curators to provide the data).

 

Answers about authorship

What you propose sounds good to me. There are three others who were involved in data collection and generating the ideas:

·         Dr Greg McClelland, who was with the RSPB & Tristan da Cunha Conservation Department

·         Trevor Glass, Head of the Tristan da Cunha Conservation Department

·         Dr Peter Ryan, Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, University of Cape Town

 

They?ve all been told about the work you folks are doing, and didn?t raise any objections. When you?re ready to discuss authorship, let me know and I can e-introduce everyone. Note that Peter is on a ship at sea until late March without email, however, and Trevor is quite busy and may not respond. His background isn?t science, and there are some cultural sensitivities around penguins on Tristan, so if you hear nothing back after your initial email, I will likely end up calling him to talk things over (and he?s usually fine with whatever is proposed).

 

What do you envision as your timeline? I have some field work planned for April/May.

 

I hope that answers everything, but if not, just drop me a line. I may be away for a few days next week, but will respond as soon as I can.

 

Cheers,

Alex

 

 

 

 

From: Tracy Montgomery [mailto:tracymmontgomery@gmail.com]
Sent: 26 January 2017 18:25
To: Bond, Alex <Alex.Bond@rspb.org.uk>
Cc: Christie Bahlai <cbahlai@msu.edu>; Maggie Sawdy <maggie.sawdy@gmail.com>; Connie Rojas <conniearojas6@gmail.com>; straus46@msu.edu; montg215@msu.edu; swemtrac@msu.edu
Subject: Re: Meet group Penguegg!

 

Hi Alex,

Thank you so much for  suggesting your dataset as our class project! This week we've been creating a data read.me with all the information about the data, as well as discussing authorship. To that end, we have a few questions for you:

Questions about the database:

1. Could you please clarify the Source column? It seems to be indicators for which museum / person owns the eggs, but it would be nice to know what each one means.
2. Could you please clarify the Reference column? It seems to be an amalgam of who measured it, papers the data came from, harvested vs. known clutches (what does this mean?), and indicators for simulation. How should we interpret missing cells in the Reference column?
3. Who did the measurements? In Bond et al. 2016, it says the same individual did the all the measurements for that paper. Some of the sampleshere have who measured it in the Reference column, but many do not. Do you have that missing information?
4. In the publication data tab, there are many new fields for egg measurements. Could you please explain how those were measured?
5. Is there any way to connect the Publication tab with the main data tab (i.e. by a sampleID or other code)? Or are these other measurements already known to not be important?
6. Does a lack of the specimen ID indicate anything?
7. Would you be comfortable with us posting the current data files online, either in the github repo or as a figshare document? We could upload the full dataset or a cleaned version.
8. Could you give us a little history on the who has been working on this dataset and what was the reason for starting it?

Questions about authorship:

In following with RCR and open science, we would like to discuss authorship and expectations up front with you and your collaborators. From our end, we hope to be able to clean, analyze, write, and publish a paper using this data! From your end, we hope that you can provide us with your biological knowledge of Northern Rockhoppers & the Tristan da Cunha system, your initial ideas about analyzing this data, and your help brainstorming potential biotic and abiotic factors that could affect egg size. We hope to be able to do most of the statistics ourselves, but we may also require some guidance in that realm. Does this seem reasonable to you? What are your expectations from us in this collaboration?

Thank you! We look forward to working with you this semester.
Tracy (M.), Tracy (S.), Eli, Connie, Maggie, and Christie (aka group Penguegg)

 

 

On Tue, Jan 17, 2017 at 5:31 AM, Bond, Alex <Alex.Bond@rspb.org.uk> wrote:

    Hello aspiring penguinologists! Lovely to meet you, and thrilled that we?ll be working together.

     

    I?ve attached a spreadsheet with the relevant data, which should be fairly straightforward. For each museum collection or data source, there?s a unique ID, a date, location, and measurements. Northern rockhoppers lay 2 eggs ? the first is called A, and the second, B. Obviously for museums, we don?t know the laying order, so these are marked as ?U?nknowns. Note that there are a few ?oddballs? ? obvious outliers that were collected because they looked weird.

     

    Also attached is our discriminant function for predicting laying order from measurements. We can hopefully use this to classify these unknowns as either A or B.

     

    And a bit about the islands ? Tristan da Cunha is in the South Atlantic, 2800 km from land (!!). It comprises 4 main islands: Tristan, Inaccessible, Nightingale (with nearby Alex/Middle and Stoltenhoff), and then Gough Island 400 km south. The subtropical front (a major oceanographic feature) goes between the 3 northern islands and Gough, so that might be an interesting variable to consider.

     

    I?m based in the UK, so 5 hours ahead of Michigan, but happy to arrange a skype/phone call to chat things through if anyone wants.

     

    Any questions, feel free to drop me a line!

     

    Cheers,

    Alex

     

    PS: I?ve also included a short book chapter on the species that has lots of background info.

     

     

    Dr Alex Bond
    Senior Conservation Scientist

    RSPB Centre for Conservation Science
    UK Headquarters, The Lodge, Sandy, Bedfordshire SG19 2DL
    Tel +44 (0)1767 693432
    Mobile +44 (0)7860 916339
    Web alexanderbond.org

    rspb.org.uk

    Let's give nature a home

    The RSPB is a member of BirdLife International, a partnership of nature conservation organisations working to give nature a home around the world.

     

    RSPB logo
    	

    BirdLife International logo


    The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) is a registered charity: England and Wales no. 207076, Scotland no. SC037654

     

     

     

     

    From: Christie Bahlai [mailto:cbahlai@msu.edu]
    Sent: 16 January 2017 19:53
    To: Bond, Alex <Alex.Bond@rspb.org.uk>
    Cc: 'Maggie Sawdy' <maggie.sawdy@gmail.com>; 'Connie Rojas' <conniearojas6@gmail.com>; straus46@msu.edu; montg215@msu.edu; swemtrac@msu.edu
    Subject: Meet group Penguegg!

     

    Hi Alex!

    I?d like you to meet Maggie, Connie, Eli, Tracy (Montgomery) and Tracy (Swem)- the intrepid group of volunteers interested in making this Rockhopper Penguin project happen! We?re going to be diving into data management this week in class, so I thought it best to connect the group as soon as possible.  Would you be able to pass the materials you?d like students to review at your earliest convenience?  We?ve created a github repo to facilitate collaboration and sharing of materials:
    https://github.com/ReproducibleQM/penguegg

    We can add you on as a collaborator there.

    Looking forward to working with you!

     

    Best,

    -C

     

    Christine (Christie) Bahlai Ph.D.

    Department of Integrative Biology

    Michigan State University

    Phone: +1 (517) 331-0499

    Research: https://sites.google.com/site/cbahlai/

    Blog: http://practicaldatamanagement.wordpress.com/

     



    This email and any attachments may contain material that is confidential, subject to copyright and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) is a registered charity in England and Wales no. 207076 and in Scotland no. SC037654.

 
